if you don't accept yourself as a trans
woman
you are placing a value on cis women
over trans women
oh 100 yeah right and so that's i think
the basic problem is that like you are
valuing something above yourself that
you will never be
yeah so welcome and you go by natalie is
that right
natalie yeah okay so i'm all oak or dr k
thank you very much for coming today um
nice to meet you
i really love your so let's start sorry
i'm just
fixing my camera which is why
so uh do you want to just start because
i i know you're predominantly on youtube
or exclusively on youtube
do you want to just tell us a little bit
about who you are natalie and and what
kind of work you do
uh sure yeah my name is natalie wynn
i am the creator of the youtube channel
contra points
and that is a channel i've been doing
for about four years
it's changed a lot over the time i've
been doing it
and it is i would say
it's about politics but it's also
i guess more generally about internet
culture
it's more about the internet culture
side of politics
so when i started on youtube i was kind
of
well there's a lot of creators who are
doing what was called like
anti-sjw content uh
anti-social justice warrior content
ranting about these crazy blue haired
student activists who are destroying
western civilization
and a lot of my early content was aimed
at trying to like
introduce a more measured discourse
around like
social justice issues progressive issues
because i felt that youtube was a
very very right wing
things that the world has changed a lot
in four years the internet's changed a
lot youtube's changed a lot and i have
changed a lot
um i am in a different way
it's a whole different website a whole
different world now um
you know i'm now just one among a sea
of people who's doing sort of what they
call a left
to the content now and i also
have uh you know changed
genders in that time because i started
uh you know when i started in 2016 i was
having
like a kind of gender crisis um
but i shortly realized that i was a
trans woman and i've
been transitioning medically and
socially since 2017
and all of that's kind of factored into
the content that i make on youtube
interesting um thank you so much for
sharing that so
like i think your videos are fantastic
and i don't know if you have um
experience teaching
but like they're very well done i think
from a
information dissemination standpoint i
think you're a phenomenal teacher
thank you i am before i did this i was a
i was i was getting a phd in philosophy
and dropped out but
um yeah i did teach a couple classes or
at least take tas and classes
that actually makes a lot of sense now
that i think about it because i think
what i really appreciate about your
videos is um you know whether you
agree or disagree with the content
whatever but i think from a
craftsmanship standpoint they're very
thoughtful very logical
i think you form a really good like
sequence of explaining context and
background before
you know arriving at your thesis it
doesn't surprise me at all that you
formally studied philosophy because i
think that's a
you know they trained you how to think
and construct an argument more than
anything else
um thank you yeah it turned out to be
well and on you like no one expects to
get a philosophy drop outside of
academia but
i found the one thing where it actually
i'm sure it's useful for a lot of things
but it's pretty surprising
actually specifically useful for this
yeah um in
in some fields like strategic consulting
they actually highly prioritize or
highly value philosophy degrees
because training and philosophy is
sometimes training and thinking
yeah it teaches you a certain approach
to to things like
the ability to sort of understand a
perspective that you disagree with
or to like build up arguments for an
argument that you disagree with
and then like sort of counter it it's a
kind of like i guess i call it like
intellectual empathy where you
understand like why you try to
understand
what exactly someone else thinks and why
they think it
that's maybe the more psychological side
is why i was going to say that sounds
like my job
yeah yes that's definitely
definitely more in psychology so natalie
i don't know how familiar you are with
healthy gamer but if i can just orient
you to how we do interviews
um so you know we usually don't we'll
have guests who
may be like you know prominent in a
particular field but
we don't really talk about
the work that they do so it's not like
you know we're really here to learn
about
people yeah sure and and i think so
often times i'll i'll ask questions that
are like personal so like i want to know
about you as a person in your journey
as opposed to any particular political
views that you may believe in or
whatever
yeah yeah and you know if if a political
view that you
have relates to something personal in
your life i think that's actually like
totally cool um but generally speaking
you know we we talk about people and i
think a lot of
what uh our viewers really appreciate is
um seeing themselves in the person that
they're talking to so the the
discussions tend to be a little bit more
personal
sure that being said you know if there
is anything that
um you're welcome to draw whatever
boundaries you want around the
discussion
i'm not here to try to expose anything
or anything like that
um you know like if there's something
that you feel uncomfortable with
you're welcome to say hey i just don't
want to answer that um
and then if i notice you're getting
uncomfortable i may actually point it
out to you
and then ask for permission to proceed
okay sounds good
i mean i'm a habitual divulger of
information about myself
so that's probably going to work out
fine what does that mean a habitual
divulger of information about you well i
i it means i enjoy the confession
the confessional format i i mean
every once every every couple you know
twice a year maybe i make a video that's
really more about me than about anything
else
what do you enjoy about divulging
information about yourself
well i i suppose i'm interested in
myself
because i around to this person all the
time and sometimes i
form opinions i i guess i i don't know
it's
it feels there's also maybe a kind of
there's probably some kind of
therapeutic thing for me it feels good
to sort of
speak your truth as it were i don't know
i i cannot it can also be sort of i
think it can be unhealthy just
sometimes when you're kind i don't know
if
for instance i find it easier sometimes
to talk to a million people than to talk
to one person
in that i think especially online
there's a kind of when you're producing
you know i'm sure people can relate to
this when you're posting anything on
social media
there's a kind of illusion of of
solitude
that comes from being alone at your
computer
um i often are you know alone in front
of the camera
which is often how i'm filming right and
how i'm writing
and so i've i'm sort of gotten over this
i'm
becoming more a professional but there
used to be a time when i would um
you know the first time that i would see
the video i had just spent 100 hours
making in the youtube player itself
i would have this moment of panic like
oh god like other people can actually
see this
like this is not just my private video
diary that i've been working
on um but i don't know i guess it feels
good to sort of like share what you're
going through and oftentimes
you know a bunch of other people will
find
something relevant to themselves about
what you've shared
and so that to me is very um
[Music]
well it often it makes you feel less
alone you know when you hear that other
people have been through
something similar and that's actually
exactly what we're about we're about
you know i think a lot of the it's the
reason i started streaming was because
what i noticed is i was having the same
conversations like over and over and
over again
and everyone thought that they were
alone with their struggles
yeah and what it turns out is that
everyone is struggling with the same
stuff it's just
that's not what we advertise right we we
put on a mask and we show people
something else
and so everyone else gets the impression
that the world is like a lot of people
who are doing fantastic
whereas all of us are struggling yeah
and so well i think there's a using a
leap of faith almost that happens
when you put out something very personal
because
you're you know maybe everyone thinks
you're crazy
um or maybe and this is a leap of faith
the fact that you're going through
something in private that's not often
discussed
it's going to turn it's going to turn
out that you know 10 000 other people
are going through that same thing
and they all connect with you so so
you're sort of hoping
or even if they're not going through
exactly what you're going through
it relates in some way to their own
experience and so you're hoping they
connect on on some level
yeah so can you share with us is there
has there been a particular leap of
faith that you've taken that's
surprised you in terms of how people
responded to it
let's see uh yeah there's been a few
um trying to think of a
like the best example well i
did a video a long time ago on
in cells the insult movement and
i kind of in the last part of that video
related because that you know i spent a
lot of time on insult forms like
when i part of what i do when i cover a
um
like an intern you know some facet of
internet culture
because i would go into the forums and
i'll like sort of spend time
learning the vocabulary and learning
like what are the concerns how
you know what are the what are the usual
objections that people give
to you know to insults that they've
heard a hundred times and are just
already don't want to hear um you know
and so i guess what i found is that like
there's something kind of profoundly
i guess relatable to me about
that like obsessive like self abuse
that a lot of like in cells have right
this kind of putting themselves down all
the time and
to the point of like physiologically
like anatomically analyzing their
defects in great detail
and that it reminded me i guess of um
a lot of like the uglier trans faces
online
which in a different you know this kind
of different context
involve exactly the same thing which is
like a kind of
an obsessively negative self-harming
like analysis of your own anatomy
right uh the black pill
right the the that's what cells call it
the idea that
you know because of their you know
inferior bone structure
that they are doomed by nature to have
a lonely life but yeah
yeah and and so you said that that you
said it sort of resonated with you on
on some level or it was it did yeah yeah
i found something familiar about it um
you know write down it's through some
weird weirdly specific parallels are you
concerned about the shapes of facial
bones
and can you do you mind if i ask you a
little bit more like personally about
what it was that resonated with you or
what kinds of thoughts that you've had
about yourself i'm assuming you're
thinking about yourself
absolutely i mean at the time i was
actually considering
going through like a major facial
surgery
um to change my appearance which i ended
up doing
um but it's it's funnily enough it's
actually
a frequent topic on insult forms too
where they'll talk about
basically doing all the opposite things
of what i did you know
augmenting the jaw and to get a stronger
more masculine look
and uh you know strengthening the brow
bone and
doing all these things that give them
that like chiseled
chadley appearance and and so what is it
that
how does changing your physical
appearance
how does that relate to the way that you
perceive or feel or talk
talk to yourself like how do you like
you know what
what help what motivates you to do that
and what does it mean to you to do that
well i think it's something that most
people do to some extent
like i think everyone has everyone with
a mirror
has some kind of thing about themselves
they don't like
i think that when you're trans like i am
like there's an additional layer of it
whereas i mean you like
i went through a period where like i
mean i was presenting
appearing to the world as a as a man and
that's how like there's a very that's a
very
drastic sense of what i'm saying in the
mirror
is wrong um and i think that
you know i think that's not as you know
it's a complicated question isn't it
like how much
of that dysphoria gender dysphoria
how much of that is just what it means
to be trans as part of who we are has to
be respected
and how much of it is a kind of
negative like internalized hatred
because society views trans people with
a very cruel gaze
and sometimes it's not clear like what
is gender dysphoria
and what is just me internalizing this
kind of
ugly way that people have looking at
trans people
so natalie do you mind if i ask you some
questions about like
what your sense of like kind of where
you grew
up i mean not so much in terms of
details about where but like what
your upbringing was like and and how you
learned that you were trans
yeah i can talk about that a little bit
i mean
i had um i guess it was such as an early
in my early childhood i had a pretty
a pretty normal boyhood in a way like
it's actually i don't think
like pre-12 years old i actually look
back on that time
mostly with with positivity i think that
you know
i i was sort of neither the most
i was certainly not the most masculine
boy but i was not like
i wasn't feminine to the point where it
was a major problem
um but when i was a teenager i guess
i sort of began there was this like
discontent
beginning to stir the senses something
was wrong
um in my 20s it just got worse
and worse can you explain that feeling
um like how would it make
i'm just imagining that there's like
someone who's 19 who's watching right
now
and how would they know you know
yeah how would you know you're trans
that's the question i get a lot
um well it gets a lot of trans people
will tell you that it's it's easy like
oh if you're even questioning at all
that means you're trans i don't agree
with that
i think that a lot of people question
their gender for a lot of
reasons um and i think
that you know whether you're raised as a
boy or as a girl like there's a lot of
like gendered expectations
put on to you there's a lot of um you
know
there's a kind of image of you know what
what you're supposed to be doing a
script
that you're supposed to be following and
it's it's everyone to some extent i
think
questions that a little bit about
themselves like i think this
that may be especially true of of women
people who are raised girls like
that's a very constrict well well it's
i think it's true with men in a
different way but it's um
you know that there's often times like
going to be
situations where you know even if you
are
just a you know a regular cis woman like
you're going to think like
this sucks i don't like being treated
like a woman because it sucks
right right and there's times when you
know when it sucks to be a man
like it's absolutely it does um but so
to me it's a question of
figuring out like not just whether
you're responding to those things but
in my case it's more a question of you
know
i just don't i feel like socially
i sort of fit a script for women better
and physically i'm so i have this kind
of
this sense of alienation from my body
that is making it hard for me
to like it's it's
you i feel i felt sort of feel like i
had to be detached from my body or go
outside of my body
i didn't feel sort of physically
connected to the world
and i you know people who are
trans women who are sort of not aware
that they're trans yet tend to do a lot
of
things that they can't quite explain to
themselves like like
an atypical forum for man amount of body
shaping
and uh or that kind of thing just kind
of trying to have a more androgynous
look i guess was something that i'd been
doing for a long time
and then you know i i would kind of like
as a joke you know it's halloween
well what if i would have fighted it was
a girl
wasn't that funny
you know and that kind of thing and at
some point you know
you you realize that like it took me a
long time honestly
there was a lot of denial and excuse
making
but i think you know youtube in some
ways helped me
help me figure it out as i was kind of
presenting
um you know at the time i was it was
played off as like
a bit where i was like going to be the
a degenerate cross-dresser that was just
the idea
the stick but so it looks like you used
a lot of humor
and yeah which is um
it's kind of what you because you i was
sort of aware that like
you know like i knew that i didn't look
like a woman like i i looked like a man
in a dress and people think
that's the thing that people find funny
so i guess
my way of coping with that was to be
like well i guess it is kind of funny
let's make it funny and so i did that
but at some point i kind of realized
like this is actually is not funny to me
it's like like this is what i want to be
and
i don't want you know i actually
i i feel like i'd rather live as a woman
um and that you know when i when i
realized that there was a kind of period
where i was going back and forth in the
meaning now that's because insanity
don't do that
and then times when i was being like
okay but it's what i want
and you know through through
the warriors through stages like for a
while i just identified as a
gender queer meaning that i sort of
identify with neither gender
i thought of myself as just like an
androgynous person
and so i would wear you know i was i was
like freaking biggie was looking like
i'd be wearing
nail polish and lipstick but like still
being
like socially like being a man i guess
uh
using a male name and things but just
being a sort of
uh i don't know flamboyant or um
how what is the word i'm looking for
like uh adorned man
but i guess um you know i just
at a certain point i realized that i
wanted to there was like a medical
component to this
you know i thought that i was uh well i
felt that like
there was a problem not just it's a
certain point it's not just about oh
i painted my nails so lots of men paint
their nails that's fine
right i wore a dress well men wear
dresses all the time
like but at a certain point i was like
but like this is like
this is not what i want to be i don't
want to be a man on a dress i'm like
i think i'm supposed to be a woman and
uh that then you know i i it was always
it was
all very gradual i kind of stumbled into
it like something i don't know the
different trans people have different
stories
some trans people that they know from
the age of three they just have this
strong inner conviction their different
gender
that's not really my story to me it was
it was more just like a series of the
gender problems and gender confusion
that just kind of settled on this
natalie how
how has your internal experience or
how have your feelings changed or your
thoughts changed
as you've walked along that journey so
i'm imagining
i'm trying to envision like when you
were 16 years old and you looked in the
mirror like
how did you feel about yourself and what
did you think about yourself
um well i think when i was very young
like that
i kind of like found a way of expressing
these feelings through like
just being a pretty boy you know and
like i was like well that's fine like
that's kind of me
you know um but i guess that's really
hard i think one thing that happened is
when i got a bit older like
that occupying like that kind of role
you know
at some point like can you be a 40 year
old pretty boy like
i don't know maybe maybe you can like
i'm sure i'm sure that there's there's
there's
hollywood actors and stuff out there who
i would describe that way
but i i guess i kind of realized like
you know being a boy was okay
but being a man wasn't if that makes
sense
sure yeah i mean i think you know
boys and girls and men and women i think
there's more
um you know androgyny between boys and
girls
exactly exactly and so i that's kind of
how i see myself like
as i can perceive myself kind of
becoming a man
that really like triggered the sense of
dread
and feeling of wrongness like no like
i'm not supposed to be that
um and so i think that
i also around this time like you know i
was not raised with
a knowledge of trans people not in any
detail
um certainly not in a very positive um
you know what have you dread about being
a man i guess i sort of
felt like
i felt that it wasn't an expression of
myself
and that's if you're i know that's
that's kind of fake that i feel like i'm
not
making it clear it's the kind of feeling
that's hard to put into words
it's like i just i would just
look at women and see like nothing like
that's what i should be doing
you know like i i sort of it's a matter
of um
at a certain point kind of like
identification like i think that
most people get their idea of what it
means to be a man or what it means to be
a woman
from other men and women like you sort
of form
role models i guess you have like sort
of
a verb i mean trans people and and cis
people are
are similar in a lot of ways like like
we all
you know have some way a version of our
gender that's like
we feel like that's us you know and
obviously there's a lot of different
ways of being a man there's a lot of
different ways of being a woman
but um i guess
you know and i think when you're an
adolescent especially you're kind of
experimenting with different options
like you might sort of try to be six
different people
between ages 13 and 18. that's pretty
common
but um like what happens when you start
admiring
the you start seeing yourself in women
and not in men that's a great way to put
it yeah
um so i i guess what you identify with
or what you
strive to be or the kinds of role models
you have
happen to be not from your gender
yeah yeah it reminds me of you know
people say
um when i was in med school and trying
to figure out what i wanted to do
what people told me was like you know
don't worry about the field
like think about the kinds of doctors
that feel like role models to you
yeah yeah you know and and so i'm kind
of curious
you know going through surgery um
i'm trying to find the right word for it
i i feel like drastic
is a little bit judgmental so i'm trying
to steer clear of that word but
um you know
let's put it this way it's it's a big
step right so basically
yeah like drastic is not entirely wrong
i i know i have like a little bit of a
negative connotation you take things too
far
but i it is um it's a significant
decision to make um especially like you
know the
the main surgery i've had is facial
feminization
which is a terrifying surgery like
you're changing your face
which is a very personal um thing you
know
um i think and there was a lot of fear
about that going into it i thought like
am i am i gonna lose myself like am i
gonna not
look like me anymore um and what
happened
well as it turns out i i basically just
love it
like i look more like myself now than i
did before interesting
in my case it was it was the right
decision
um i i but it's uh
it's certainly not something to do
lightly i think it's
uh you should it's good to spend a few
years honestly thinking about it before
you're doing it
because it's uh yeah it's an ordeal it's
an ordeal to go through it's a lot of
pain and difficulty and expense
to put yourself through um but i think
like to me i mean especially as someone
who's on camera all the time
like it really was a preoccupation that
i had this like
you know especially once i knew that
knew that was possible i was like i want
this is something i need for myself
yeah so let me ask you something so i
you know i probably am a little bit
disrespectful towards in cells more so
than i
i should be um and but i i sometimes
kind of struggle a little bit with like
that balance of changing yourself
because
there's a part of me and i think this
like sort of doesn't internally make
sense to me there's a part of me that
says that
you know it's completely fine if you
want to change your body but
something within me recoils from the
idea if i was talking to an incel
and they said you know i want a more
masculine jawline
or i want this kind of facial surgery to
make me look more chad-like
and i'm really not trying to make fun of
them now sometimes i do that i probably
shouldn't
it's hard not to because they do say
some ridiculous things but
there are very misogynistic things and
and so
i'm just trying to understand like you
know
is that the same or is that different
i think it's a complicated question like
uh
you know there's there's in cells who
are talking about plastic surgery who
are fixated on plastic surgery
within feminism there's discourse about
like
is this just women trying to meet like
oftentimes like racist and patriarchal
expectations about
female beauty i'm instead of just
learning to love themselves as they are
um
so i would say like would you know i
think that even an in-seller
or you know cis woman like has a
right has a right to get plastic surgery
as well of course i think that these
desire comes up from a different place
though
in a different um there's a different
kind of justification for it
like i think what like i think what's
kind of like aching us out
about in cell plastic surgery is that
oftentimes the
explanations they give for why they're
doing it are based on things that are
kind of false and deranged
like the notion that you need this
certain jawline for women to be
attracted to you and that's going to fix
everything like
that that doesn't make sense and it's
probably not true
and it's um it just comes from a
fundamentally misguided like
idea of like i mean it didn't and again
i don't want to say it's always the
wrong thing to do
like maybe you have an incredibly weak
chin and you just genuinely do look a
lot better with a
stronger jawline and that's going to
make you happy like maybe so
maybe so but maybe not and i've seen a
lot of people posting on insult forms
where it's like
there's patently nothing wrong with your
face and
they and they've but they've kind of
scapegoated
this they say this my physical
appearance like that's why i'm lonely
like that's the problem i have with
women like if i change this like
everything's gonna be fixed and that
is delusional thinking because i don't
think having a stronger jawline is going
to suddenly make you
you know women magnetized i mean
honestly that's so my experience with
the insults and part of the reason that
i make fun of in cells
is that i find that when i talk to a
person
i have trouble i've been looking for
what i call a true insult
for a long time and and what my
experience has been is that any time you
talk to a person who identifies as an
incel
if you i the more i talk to them the
more that i get to know them
i can't find an incel in there you know
what what i see is just relatively
regular
level of insecurity or you know concern
about their appearance or things like
that
um but it's you know it's interesting i
i just wonder a little bit about
some of these because you're sort of
mentioning like feminist
communities that sort of talk about a
particular body type that
is essentially the result of the
patriarchy and i'm wondering actually if
the converse is true and that's what the
incels feel that there's sort of this i
mean it sounds actually like the same
argument where it's like there's a
feminine standard of beauty um yeah
and and that people are being judged and
aligning towards that and i never
thought that feminists and in cells
would be making the same argument
but yeah this is the sparkly uh well i
think uh
i i think that i guess in cells 10 when
we talk about surgery they tend not to
be super critical of it
like they feel that there's this male
standard of beauty um
but oftentimes instead of attributing
that to say like patriarchy
this like social circumstance that could
be changed
they attribute it to like evolution the
nature of
the dating market and the nature of like
the you know competitive meeting and all
this kind of stuff
yeah but it seemed to think the female
brain is just wired to like this kind
of jaw you know whereas i think that the
feminist critique is more
it is the idea that like oh this is all
socially constructed
um now i think that with trans
surgery it's kind of
complicated because there's kind of a
little bit of of two different things
going on
one is like gender dysphoria there's a
person's individual internal sense
often totally against what a person has
been raised to think they should be
right
like i was raised to think i should be a
man why am i not doing that
like because there's something
individually about me that is like
rejected the script i was handed
um and so i think that like part of the
reason for my wanting to have surgery
was really just to
my personal desire to see myself as i
feel i should be
even against society to wanting me to
look like that however
when you start you know i live as a
woman and people judge me as a woman
and they judge my parents as they would
judge a woman's appearance a lot of the
time
with some complicating factors because
of the fact that people know that i'm
trans
um but i think that i
it's a question i definitely struggled
with when i was you know preparing to
get surgery
it's like who am i doing this for
exactly like am i doing this because
this is me is this what's going to make
me happy like this is what i want to see
in the mirror like this is all for me
or am i doing it because i think it's
gonna make me look
more socially acceptable and be more
desirable to other people
more um easily able to assimilate
and to other you know into society and
you yeah
and answers both yeah it's it's
interesting because there's actually
i really love that you mentioned that
because it's like where does the desire
to change come from
yeah does it come from wanting something
from other people right so if i'm let's
say like i want a stronger jawline to
attract more women
that doesn't feel that feels to me like
it's a desire to change yourself
to accommodate or have something to do
with the outside world
whereas what it's all about other people
and what they want yeah
and what i'm hearing from you is that
like the fundamental difference is like
i mean not to say that you don't want
something from the outside world as well
but that
there's a difference between wanting to
be satisfied with the way that
you look for your own sake as opposed to
wanting to look a particular way
for other people and to get something
from other people
absolutely like i think that for insults
this is all
they don't particularly seem to care
about looking in the mirror and seeing
this
whatever they're flawed a jaw or
whatever it is except that they think
that
this is holding them back socially or
sexually
and like if they could just fix this
part of their anatomy
then you know this would be a means to
the end of attracting women
and so natalie as you transitioned um
how were you
judged what's that been like for you
um well it's not easy to
especially online like people view i
mean people online are just who are just
horrible in general
are pretty horrible in general they can
be anyway they can also be amazing but
but there's a lot of like judgment and
negative judgment i think
women get scrutinized very very heavily
based on their appearance
and then trans women in particular i
find attract as certain like
like not from everyone but there's a
subset of people who are sort of
have this cruel obsession with trans
people and sort of analyzing them and
deconstructing them
and just picking us apart and that's
something that i've experienced a lot
and i would be lying if i had if i said
it didn't get to me
can you can you tell us a little bit
more about that
uh yeah well people when you know you
will see
sometimes it's youtube comments
sometimes it's you know
the responses to your tweets or comments
on instagram they'll have to say these
things for me
it mostly isn't that it's mostly what it
goes on like
in a secluded part of the internet you
know there used to be a
reddit subreddit called gender critical
which is which is like ostensibly like
a trans exclusionary radical feminist
way of thinking
but what you're often kind of what does
that mean
so there's a cut there's a there's a
faction of radical feminists
who are like vehemently opposed to trans
people
because they view trans women they
basically don't
think that being a trans person is
legitimate they view trans women as
men who are kind of impinging on female
space sort of invaders
interesting yeah and they sound like
gender appropriation
yeah that's often an argument they'll
make and then they view transformation
as like
as like our lost damaged sisters who
just are just internally misogynistic
and trying to be men to escape
um but like oftentimes people will just
judge other people for all kinds of
stuff
oh yeah people but it often just devolve
into like simple like
like a roasting basically and you know
it's not
it's not just them it's not just these
people there's there's a lot of people
on the internet who
enjoy this if you ever go to you know
4chan god help you
like there's people there's parts of
that website where they sort of will
obsess over trans people
and it's like it's especially bad if
you're yeah
there's a lot of criticisms to be made
for 4chan but oddly enough
and hopefully i'm not speaking out of
turn i was really surprised recently so
i
you know sometimes i work with people
with autism and it seems like it's
actually a pretty supportive place it's
it's for people with autism it's kind of
strange
it's a complicated website i mean
there's parts of it that um
that are like are pretty pleasant
there's there's
there's parts of it that have even like
kind of like
fostered some of the good parts of the
internet and people will
you know anonymously without any
expectation of thanks or
reward um like do very nice things for
each other
i've absolutely seen those how things
happen on 4chan but then it can also
devolve and it sort of depends on which
you know uh which form you're in
but it can develop it and just use
incredible nastiness and cruelty
also yeah and i think that especially
that that
tends to be within that with with trans
people
so i don't know it's not it's been a
common experience that i'll run across
i've gotten better at just avoiding this
kind of thing but you run across a forum
wherever it is where people are just
like
you know they're posting pictures of you
or videos of you and they're just like
tearing you apart like your physical
appearance
they're misgendering me they're either
they're dead naming me that's saying
like
you know oh look at his giant shoulders
look at his like
like will anyone ever believe that's a
real female voice like of course not
and like like this kind of it's just uh
it's very mean or they call you a sexual
pervert and say that you're just
narcissistic
and it's uh so a lot of it
it's very like cruel i guess and how
does that
i mean what's it like to be on
the receiving end of that well you feel
like
like a butterfly pinched to a board or
like a vivid section in a way
it's it's very it um it hurts it does
and like
and a lot you know i think of myself as
a very thick-skinned person
like i'm a person who's been arguing on
the internet for four
four plus years professionally i am
acquainted
with negative comments and negative
feedback
but i feel like this style of thing in
particular
has really hurt my self-image and it has
kind of
caused me to become like preoccupied
with my appearance
in a way that i think if i were not
online i never would have cared this
much
and in a way that i feel it sometimes is
pathological
what what kind of preoccupations
well i i feel um
i feel like i have to be very prepared
to go on camera
i i when i look at myself and the um
you know i'll glance over here and look
at my um
the my own monitor basically
and i'm just sort of analyzing it i
imagine the things that people are going
to say about me
and i guess you sort of internalize this
very negative
way of looking at you and
the worst part is then you you begin
just applying it to yourself
and maybe we're still applying it to
other trans people
what does that mean applying it to
yourself well you sort of look at
yourself with the owner
you're the same judgmental mean
kind of gaze other people look at you
so so i i find myself in if this is too
personal please let me know
natalie but i find myself like wanting
to know the actual
thoughts that go through your head
um that when when you see
like when and i would imagine that that
actually your
criticalness of your appearance
fluctuates personally
i would say i would hypothesize and i'm
curious about you know when it's more
active
what are the actual thoughts that you
have about yourself
like what thoughts kind of thoughts go
through your mind
well i will i will sort of i mean if i'm
filming a video for example i'll be
looking over
in the monitor and i'll see like you i
look like such a transsexual
and i'll say well you are transsexual
you idiot of course you look like one
and then and i'll you know i'll listen
to according to my voice and be like oh
god like that does not sound good
and you know it sounds like a fake voice
it sounds like i'm
trying too hard or i will um
like i can't watch like my old videos i
can't watch videos
from two years ago where i was sort of
like not as good at this
as i am now and those are just horribly
painful
and when you say horribly painful so i
i'm i'm going to share something with
you well let me just start off with this
so i i'm noticing there's actually two
things one is your reaction
and the second is your reaction to your
reaction
and i think a lot of toxicity that
people struggle with
in terms of the way they view themselves
actually comes from that second part
right one is like so
just to kind of repeat back to you and
this is why i'm asking so i want to try
to illustrate this
point for other people too that you look
at yourself and you say oh i look
like such a transsexual and then
sometimes people you know clip what i
say
so you know you you you say to yourself
oh i look like such a transsexual and
then actually i think
that's actually okay it to me but i
think the really damaging thing that we
do to ourselves is we
um we say of course you do
you're a [ __ ] transsexual right yes
and
and so like the funny thing is that you
can respond to that initial
observation in two ways which is like
yeah this is just
you know i'm i'm never gonna look like a
perfect woman because
you know somewhere in there there's a y
chromosome and that's okay
right like i can learn to be like i can
be accepting
that i'm not gonna look a particular way
or whatever but
but i think when we really get into
those dark places it's like you can make
an observation
which is fair right and then like but
then it's like the thing that we tell
ourselves
after the observation that's really
damaging
and what i find is that people try to
fix that first thought
which is they like try to convince
themselves that when i look in the
mirror
you know i don't want to look like
whereas like i think that's actually
missing a point which is that
it's it's okay to look like that like
yeah you know
no i agree that like i think that
something i sort of
i think is an area i've begun to approve
and prove a little bit recently
is is to say like oh yes i like a
transsexual well good
being transsexual is good and it's fine
it's like you're allowed to be a trans
woman
like you're allowed to it's allowed it's
it's an okay thing to be
and if you look like one okay you are
one and that's not bad
like i think that's like the more the
more healthy response
yeah and sometimes sometimes i'm like
feeling that sometimes i'm able to get
to that
point of confidence or i'm like well
yeah
and like that's fine and like that's not
something to be ashamed of
um and then sometimes i slide back into
like the negativity about it
yeah yeah so so in a weird way you say
and that's fine that's not something to
be ashamed of
i think like there's even one other
layer of compassion here
which is that if you're ashamed of it
it's okay to be ashamed of it
yeah accepting the shame and like yep i
guess
not blaming myself for it yeah
absolutely right so like like it's okay
to be ashamed
about your appearance like it's almost
like saying like okay i get where you're
coming from
cool man like don't beat yourself up
about it
um and i use man as a gender-neutral
term which i knew i know is going to get
me in trouble at some point
and i i try to catch myself but it
doesn't bother me
um so can you can you tell me natalie
and and once again if we you know touch
how are we doing so far am i asking you
questions that feel hurtful or personal
no no this is good okay this is i i
think it's actually really helpful
because i
i like hearing your actual thoughts
because i think that's
something that we all do whether you're
trans or cis or whatever
we all judge ourselves and then
oftentimes
beat ourselves up for our own judgment
and the wildest one i heard recently
which is so common
it just really hurts me sometimes to
hear that when people make progress
instead of being happy about it they
beat themselves up for not making
progress sooner
yeah it's one of the strangest
phenomenon but like instead of like
moving forward in life
as you start to move forward you start
beating yourself up more and you kind of
say like oh
why didn't i do this when i was 20 or
it's really strange anyway
oh it's well that's definitely how i
feel about transitioning like there's a
i think this is very common there's a
lot of regret for like why didn't i do
this earlier like
it would have been easier when i was
earlier i would have missed out on less
time and like it's uh you know i i
really
started taking hormones when i was 28 so
that's on the later side
um you know and i feel like oh it would
be if i'd done this when i was 19
this would have been so much easier had
a better result like
i would have wasted less time in this
like gender limbo that i spent a lot of
my 20s in
but i don't know it is like it's it's
just what i had to do it's just what i
had to go through to realize this to get
to where i am
so uh i try not to like to dwell on the
regret too much and like it could be
worse like it you know i
i did get it i got it in my 20s and like
you know things have gone pretty well
for me considering
it's not not necessarily something to
complain about but it is often
you know it's a kind of background
regret
yeah why not complain about it
well i don't know maybe it's fine to
complain about it okay
sometimes it also accompanies it as kind
of i think i think among trans people
envy is so common like
it's it's one of the things i feel makes
my community of trans people sort of
difficult for me to be around
is that i feel like there's
you know we're all sort of under the
same pressures and so there's this like
like girls who look amazing
and who kind of pass easily as women
and and just you know are kind of
thriving in that way
are they often intensely resented by
people who haven't made that
and the other side of this is that often
times like the people who are
you know trans women who are super
possible who are pretty zoo or whatever
like they they can be very contemptuous
of people who aren't
and i find myself often like in
both of those mindsets at various times
um
where you know sometimes i i will look
at the other
the trans women and particularly on
youtube who thrive and a lot of these
people are people who transitioned it
you know 16 17 18 another 22 and they're
gorgeous and they're perfect and i'm
just like oh god
like why am i even allowed to be on
camera around these people
um and then other times like you know i
think i will kind of
was a terrible part of psychology human
psychology
where the sort of abusive things that
are said about you
there's a sick pleasure and reiterating
those things that someone else
and i like um i'm sorry to say that i'm
not a buff
at least in my head doing that to other
trans women yeah
i think sometimes sometimes we forget
that
hatred is born of hurt in my
overwhelming experience
yes and and you know not not that this
is a conversation about themselves but i
think that's just another example of a
community where
most of these people that i talk to it's
usually like
there's some hurtful experience that
happens to them
and then they start to hate the thing
that hurt them which
unfortunately is part of being human um
yeah and and what what do you i mean
what is it
so it sounds like you're aware that you
experience envy and you sort of also
have some
mean thoughts what's that like
to like see someone who's like 16 and
has transitioned and
and i'm imagining a miss the boat sort
of kind of feelings that can
it's a very mystical feeling like it's
there's this there's this this intense
like
regret and longing and envy to have
gotten
what i miss you know what i mean i think
that there's definitely an element of
that
um and i
uh you know i try not to dwell on it
because i know it's it's totally
unproductive
i can't go back in time like you know it
is much better to look forward and be
grateful for what i had you have and
accept it but it is also you know it's
hard to entirely put it out of your mind
yeah so oddly enough um natalie i'd i'd
play devil's advocate there for a second
and i think part of the reason that
those feelings linger
is because you may not be dwelling on
them enough
right so like like i think that this is
a really challenging
tight rope to walk but the balance
between emotional processing
and like wallowing in regret whereas
yeah you know i i hear this thing a lot
and it sounds really positive and i
think generally speaking it is
but it's not true peace right so if you
say like oh like you look at that person
and you have thoughts of like
you know envy and you have thoughts of
regret and then you kind of say well i
should be grateful because at least i
did it
in my 20s and yeah i'm lucky enough to
have done
xyz and maybe i don't live in you know
a country that's less accepting of trans
people
and and so what happens is you take that
negativity and you like like
push it down with positivity yeah
yeah absolutely and that that's adaptive
but i think what i've seen is that like
then the negativity keeps
cropping up right and and ultimately
what you want to do is
is actually like accept that you know
mourn
right as opposed to regret and or even
just accept that
regret and accept that this is your i
i'm going to toss out a word karma or
karma like this is just
your path in your life and it's not
going to be perfect
um but it got to be careful because i
think a lot of times we try to squash
negativity with positivity especially if
we're like
you know pretty
um decent human beings for lack of a
better term
i've heard only i've heard this term
like toxic positivity thrown around
to describe this like sort of refusal to
engage with the negative
to the point where it becomes like
almost damaging
and or damaging yeah i was gonna say not
almost
no let's see it becomes damaging and
yeah i do think that especially like
because i have a i i'm very conscious of
the fact that like i can in the grand
scheme of things like i am lucky and
privileged
beyond most trans people and
there's a scent with that there's a
sense of like
i have no entitlement to this petty
regretful like moping
you know because i'm so lucky to have
what i have
but it is true that it it does that does
not
are you that sounds to me like toxic
positivity
yeah okay maybe so cause
because i i think let me let me like if
i can just share something with you
natalie like so
yeah i think this is a really common
problem i mean i think it's a problem
people disagree with me so i i think
that like
no amount of privilege
or luck it
excuses suffering right like so
like like would then i think he was
right about this sort of said that like
human beings suffer it's like part of
what we do and no matter how much you
have
we suffer and somewhere along the way
like we started blaming people who were
privileged for suffering
and i'm not saying that like people who
are privileged shouldn't appreciate it
right so this is really tricky because
people sort of say like if i express
suffering and i have some kind of
privilege
that i'm being ungrateful or you know
you you tell yourself that that like i'm
feel i'm entitled but i think you're
allowed to suffer and i think if you
have privilege you should use that
privilege for the betterment of the
world but
your individual suffering like no amount
of privilege and we can see this because
you know you can see a lot of people who
are very successful and have a lot of
money and things like that
who are clearly like distraught and bent
out of shape and things like that
celebrities and
and you know yeah political candidates
figures they're told there is this sense
that like
once you make it to a certain level like
well you've lost your right to complain
like
or or you cannot possibly be suffering
unless
there's something sort of wrong with you
right
like if you're if you if you have money
and you have success
and you're not happy well like you're
ungrateful you're spoiled you're not
aware of your privilege and if you just
be aware of how lucky you are
then you would be happy um but yeah i
found that not to be the case at all i
mean the last year
like this has been one of the hardest
years of my life
to be honest and it's also uh
oh well a lot of things um but but one
but certainly not a lack of like
you know career success like i'm i mean
this is i'm at the peak of this i've
never
you know i'm i'm doing financially very
well like
i'm doing the views thank you
the views are just pouring in like i can
count on a million views per video which
is like
it's wild it's like it's a lot of views
but most people are on this website on
this platform are lying to get that
money
and it's like i don't think i ever would
have believed
four years ago that having what i have
now
wouldn't have made me happier it would
just be unimaginable to think that oh
having all these things i wanted
if getting them wouldn't really make me
happier
but it doesn't and it's like it's
it's hard to like i don't know if i can
convince anyone of that i feel like it's
something you almost deceive for
yourself
um because i know it's not like no one
ever told me it's like it's almost like
platitudinous that like money doesn't
buy happiness
like we all say these things but
then when you're when you you don't
really believe them until you live them
yeah that's like that's kind of where
i'm at so
so um so many different places to go so
i'm going to give you three options that
i'd love to talk about let me know if
any
feel okay to you one is i'm a little bit
curious about
um what you think and feel when you
watch older videos of yourself
the reason i feel like that's important
is because i i hope natalie that you can
actually just
be at peace with where you are
and i think the way to really get there
is by confronting
you know what you've stuffed down about
the way that you look at yourself or the
way that you think about yourself
that's one second thing um which maybe
is a little bit more philosophical is to
think a little bit about
you know where does happiness come from
right so we do have these plat
you know these like platitudes um is
that
platitude that doesn't feel like is that
the right word
okay um about you know money doesn't buy
happiness and sort of this idea so then
like where does happiness come from
and what can we understand about the
nature of happiness
and the third thing that i find myself
being curious about is you said that the
last year hasn't been easy and i'm i'm
curious about what's been challenging
for you
because it sounds like from a
professional standpoint you're doing
really well you've cornered what made it
yeah and and so what do you what do you
think any of those
kind of resonate with you or that
they're all pretty good
i think uh yeah we'll start with um
sorry what was the first one the first
one was like what do you see when what
do you think of
what do you think or what happens in
your mind when you look at older videos
of yourself
oh yeah so i just can't stand it like
because i see someone you know at a much
earlier stage of transition
and like a lot of things are wrong with
what i'm seeing
like i'm seeing like uh you know like oh
god like i didn't know how to do makeup
properly it looks terrible
i what am i wearing like what kind of
cringy not understanding how to dress
yourself as a woman
thing is this like what i i hear my
voice which at the time is much worse
than it is now i mean
when i was you know if you go way back i
had like
a much deeper much more masculine voice
and then
there's also a lot of just deeply
awkward stages along the way
where my voice i'm trying to i'm trying
to sound
more feminine because i'm more womanly
i'm not succeeding
you know that's my impression of it it
sounds like strained
and false you know and it's like
there's already this success this like
such like negativity around
trans women being like men
trying to be women or men acting like
women that to like go back and see
myself
basically as that is very painful
what hurts about it well
it's a i guess it's
i'm at a point where i think of myself
like
i don't think of myself as a man trying
to be a woman
i think of myself as a woman with a male
path
um and so to see myself like as almost
this like
caricature of what i don't want to be of
what people
like i like to think what people
mistakenly think trans people are and
i'm like literally seeing myself as that
like it's like i just hurts because i
see
i sort of take the gaze that people
maybe see all trans people as
and i literally have seen myself that
way so interesting
yeah so what i'm hearing you say is that
like when you look at yourself from a
couple of years ago
yeah you see the negative stereotype of
a trans woman
you are the embodiment of what people
negatively you're like you're you're uh
you're the embodiment of the negative
representation of a trans woman
yeah that's exactly what it is yeah
have you ever seen this subreddit called
blunder years
no so it's it's it's like a great place
where people post like pictures of
themselves like
usually during teenage years or things
like that and yeah
and you know i guess to play on wonder
years but like the blunder years like
before you got to
be where you are you know when you were
transitioning
um you know it's interesting because
when i hear you talk about yourself the
the closest thing that i can think of is
actually like thinking about puberty
and just how awkward puberty is
i think that i think it has a lot of
parallels to
puberty i mean sometimes people are
trans you know trans world we call it
like
second adolescence meaning that it's
like a
a period where similarly your body is
changing
your identity is changing your social
world is changing
and so in a lot of ways you act like a
teenager
acts and you make mistakes that
teenagers make but i feel like this
additional layer of being undignified by
an older person doing it
and you know the person who should know
better we think right
and like that's the second part yeah
just just started interrupt but like you
know so like you set a standard like so
like you're allowed to blunder yeah
it's it's when you say that you should
know better like you're not
allowing yourself to go through a second
puberty
you know with all that entails including
the awkwardness and the incredible
yearbook pictures
right yeah no i think this is true i
think that like
i think that would help me a lot more if
i could reach a point of compassion of
seeing
this as like an awkward like sort of
pseudo-adolescent period um i guess
what is the obstacle to that well part
of it is that most people
don't transition right so there's not
like a widespread
cultural awareness and like relatability
to like because everyone knows
everyone can relate to looking back at
your like 16 year old yearbook and being
like oh god
right because i think most people kind
of do but but it's much harder to relate
to like
i don't know looking back at you at age
in your early transition stage making
all these terrible faux pas
and like and just like not having it
together
yeah so i can see what you're saying
about you know not having it relate
to the common experience um
but in my experience and there's a butt
there right so
natalie that i i think that relating to
a common mis
experience is a common mistake about
like
growth because i think actually the more
you look at your own growth
it sounds to me like you've grown
immensely and i think most of the growth
that you've gone through
has nothing to do with the common
experience in fact it has been
in spite of and separate from the common
experience which is your point exactly
yeah but what i'm saying is that if you
can grow so much without
sharing this like you know a common
experience with other people that common
experience is not
a necessity for growth and in my
experience it's actually like
personal introspection that
is the real answer right like i can
procrastinate and the rest of the world
can procrastinate and i can feel
validated
and connected to other people because we
all procrastinate
but ultimately my journey against
procrastination is one that i have to
walk
irrespective of what everyone else is
doing
and so you know what i'm hearing is like
i i just think that you've really got to
think about why you judge yourself so
harshly
right and where does that come from when
did that start
well i think it's a product of being
judged harshly by other people
like especially during those times when
like like i said people are
people who don't pull in punches they're
very mean like online and like
when you put yourself out there
especially on video
like there's not a lot of restraint that
people have in terms of saying what they
think about you
and so i feel like it's these series of
experiences of like
humiliation i guess and we're shaming
yeah where do you remember any
experiences of like
pretty strong humiliation or shame like
even before the age of 18
like even before you started to dabble
in this kind of stuff
um
well i yeah
i can um i mean i can remember like i
yeah i was i was when i was you know
early teenage years
i had like you know a girlfriend for
whatever that meant at the time you know
for two years
and sorry not to for two months um and
like
i remember like one of her reasons like
for breaking up with me
was this sense of like why can't you be
normal
like why why are you wearing your hair
like that why you just advised that
you're framing little like
to see you know like and and
so there was a sense of shame about that
there was a period where like i did try
to be like more like a normal man
um i think that when i was when i was
looking around in my early twenties
especially i was like
i was giving it a real try um so
i think all i think that like the first
part of the shame was the shame
about being like i mean at the time like
you know a a male identified person or
male 1
i'm just functioning as a man in society
but with this like sense of that it was
wrong for me and is longing to do
something else
but a thing that like you're very
strongly discouraged from doing
as a man right so i i think that like
there's a kind of identity fracture at
some point in here because now obviously
i don't apply
the standards of manhood to myself but
it was a time when i actually did
and i felt that you know so there was
this kind of
shame around that um and then when i
transitioned you know
that involved overcoming that shame to
to to sort of put myself out there as
like no i'm actually
a different person than you think i am
and
like it's just it's a shameful thing
that is not
except socially acceptable but like here
here it is
um so there was like this moment i guess
of triumph them
about of having overcome a kind of shame
but i feel that it was replaced in a way
with an almost a whole new world of
shame
where it's like you're you know you go
from shame from not being
a good enough man to not being a good
enough woman
as people start judging you by different
standards
yeah so so natalie this may be you know
a touch academic
and and you know i'd say that if you're
interested i don't know if you you see a
therapist or
you know have anyone that you can kind
of confide or work
through things but if you don't i think
this is a great kind of
thing to work through with someone but
um and maybe you already have
but i think that you got to be really
careful there so my understanding of
of the mind comes primarily from like
yogic theory and like eastern
conceptions of mind
and i think that essentially what
happens is you've got like this ball of
shame
which just changed clothing and the
tricky thing there and i think this is
why things don't get better is because
so it totally makes sense that people
are toxic towards you on the internet
like that's going to leave a mark and
that's going to change the way
that you talk to yourself completely
agree actually after hearing your story
i think that there is the the real red
herring here
is that you did triumph but that there
was a piece of it that was left over
and like changed clothing and then
started to be like
but that toxicity actually lingered and
i suspect that it actually started way
before your transition
i think i think it started with the way
that you started to talk to yourself
as these trans feelings like so your
lack of acceptance for who you are
doesn't come from youtube i mean i know
that youtube comments can be
really impactful for people but i think
you've been carrying that with you for a
long time
now i think you're right about that i i
think that you know i'm thinking back
so i transitioned in 2017 that's when i
started medically
transitioning but like there was an
earlier period where i considered it
back in it was in 2014
and that you know i was living in
chicago at the time
i was kind of experimenting with
dressing more androgynously i would go
out with nail polish and like you know
makeup on and i i was i was sort of
moving this direction that that
is like sort of difficult of someone
who's like moving towards the gender
transition
but i can remember having experiences
of like seeing other trans women who
looked like
me like out in public like on the subway
and having this strong reaction of like
you know oh god
no i can't be that i do not want to be
that i can't look like that this is not
acceptable
and then like that shame causing me to
like nail polish gone make up god
get it together like we can't i can't be
that you know
which is like a really ugly thing to
think about someone else
right a horrible thing to think about
another trans woman
but it was not based it was it was it
was it was
sort of disgust with myself in another
person in a way
absolutely it was yeah it was seeing
like oh god people are going to see me
the way they see her
and like i can't i can't handle that so
i know this sounds bizarre natalie but i
i jotted down i've been taking very few
notes but one of the things that i
jotted down
is i wrote down the word someone and
it's so interesting because when i
actually asked you
what do you think when you
look at videos of yourself from a couple
of years ago
it's the first time i heard you use the
third person talking about yourself
yeah it's it's it's like a tiny thing
and then you switched into first person
but like it was a strange way because
like it's almost like
you know the thoughts that you the
thoughts that come
up when you look at old videos from
yourself
sound to me exactly like the thoughts
that came up when you saw someone who
was transitioning
absolutely it's absolutely bad it's like
it's like i'm seeing like this shameful
thing i see in others i see in myself so
it's almost like i don't know which came
first was it me being sort of judgmental
and transphobic towards other people
or was it being judgmental and
transferred towards myself
i don't know so natalie this is a i'm
gonna take a shot in the dark it's not
transphobia towards other people it's
actually envy
i think at the root of this is your envy
for the ugly person
how so because i think that like you saw
those people
and you saw them doing something that
you thought was
ugly and i think deep down you wanted to
do it too
sure yeah and and so i think there's
more there than transphobia there's more
there than revulsion
there's i think as you mentioned right
like like i think there's envy wrapped
up in that
that like i don't have the courage
to be the ugly person that maybe i
should be
i don't have the courage to be ugly
yeah i'm afraid i no it is it is that
it's like
i it is a kind of i guess cowardice like
i can't
especially at the time like it was like
i
cannot handle the life this person is
living
yep right so so i think that
self-judgment doesn't come
i mean so i think you know if you look
at the internet the internet is going to
call you
many things natalie but coward is not
going to be one of them
yeah maybe not right so that sense of
cowardice doesn't come from the outside
it comes from you
it comes from your own judgment about
not doing this thing and that's like
regret is rolled into that too
yeah right like what do you regret that
you weren't
what you weren't courageous
you didn't do it earlier you do it
earlier yeah right and then you judge
yourself
for like not being courageous whereas
like
i mean you know i don't mean this to be
demeaning but i think you were like you
like literally went through
like a second puberty right you went
through a coming of age you went through
i mean you're a late bloomer and i think
this is something that uh
i think a lot of our community like on
twitch and gamers and whatnot like
people who watch youtube like we hold
ourselves to a certain standard of time
like life is a race
and then we're falling behind and it's
very biased towards like
very young people because that's who's
represented on these platforms
yeah and and we kind of look at all
these people and
and we like look at ourselves and we say
like oh i'm behind and it's like i i
don't know how to stress this to you
natalie but
because i think you understand this
stuff i think the interesting thing
about think about the way the mind works
is that
you activate your mind activates certain
programming which is not
the natalie that i'm talking to it's
like a natalie from a couple of years
ago like these feelings are old they're
not like current feelings it's kind of
weird
but you know it's like it's just like
like opening up an old picture of
yourself like
looking at an old picture like that
picture retains the age
at which it was taken even though you
can grow and change
you have these things in your mind that
are like
relics of your past
and when those things activate you know
i think there's a lot of envy
towards people who are more courageous i
think there's a lot of
lack of acceptance towards yourself
which we kind of have been talking about
but i think what you've really got to
think about or what i would you know
encourage you to read about or think
about is just to really recognize that
like
you were supposed to be quote unquote
don't even steer clear of that
right that was just that's just what
happens in puberty like
people start getting acne and their
voice cracks and like it's just an
awkward time that's part of your
journey and i think what keeps you from
being happy today
and now we can maybe transition to
happiness but is that like
ultimately you know success and stuff is
fantastic i i don't think that that
doesn't contribute to your happiness
it's just that
you're carrying these things from the
past
and as long as you you know view
yourself as a coward as long as you
um because you're very self-aware
incredibly insightful incredibly
insightful
very aware of your internal process
you're really gifted in that way
and and um i i i mean i think you have
to be to transition right like you've
got to really dig in there and see like
oh wow
this gender is not what i feel like as a
person
um but i think until you sort of work on
that stuff i i think happiness is gonna
be
around the corner unfortunately which
doesn't mean that you can't enjoy things
and you can't be happy but
that old hurt you're going to carry with
you
yeah i think well i guess that's the
thought i've had i thought before that
like if i could
be if i could find like some kind of
love
for that person that i'm like so
urgently feel feeling willing to
distance myself from
um then i think it would i think i would
have a more peaceful
mind um because it is kind of a burden
to
feel i mean especially because like as a
youtuber like
like i'm never gonna to me it feels like
a ball and chain like my own path feels
like a ball and chain that i'm dragging
around
because i made that what i think is a
ridiculous decision
to transition with the camera on and
it's like oh why did i do that why would
i
put myself in this position now where
i'm sort of because
online it's like time it's it's like
frozen it's frozen yes it's like it's
like
like people perceive you as this like
four dimensional
like like uh you know ever
present person or the past is just as
immediate as the present because they
can just
you know you can watch my video from
three years ago and there it is right on
your screen you're gonna hear my voice
you see my face
it's like that person is there still um
so so yeah natalie i have a
pseudo-meditative exercise for you which
i think could be
challenging and painful but i think
could help you a lot
you want to give it a go sure okay
so this is what i'm going to ask you to
do okay i'm going to walk you through it
and then
you're allowed to say hey i actually
don't want to do that okay
okay so so here's so when you look at
pictures of yourself or videos of
yourself
you know you react a particular way
totally fine
you know you think certain things about
yourself and you sort of externalize
them
like you sort of turn it but you think
certain things about yourself i can't
believe i was like that whatever
so that's a very selfish way of thinking
right because when you look at yourself
you're thinking like oh i'm so
dumb by by selfish maybe self-centered
or self-focused is a better way to think
about it
all of your thoughts are about you and
that can be hard to develop compassion
when you're just kind of thinking about
you so what i like to try to do i've
never really done this before but
hopefully it'll work
maybe it'll help maybe it'll be a
complete train wreck is i want you to
when as you watch that video
what i want you to do is first of all
notice those things right and notice
that those are thoughts about
yourself or maybe someone else is a
little bit clear but then i want you to
ask yourself one question is you watch
that person
and that is or maybe you can just tell
us not so much about what that person is
doing right or wrong but what does that
person
need
right what is that were you calling
yourself natalie back then
yeah yeah right so like think about like
what did that person like need more than
anything else in the world like what is
that person's experience of life in that
moment
you know and really try to like put
yourself back in those shoes instead of
judging it try to be
empathetic and just like what like as
you look at that
that image of yourself and you guys can
do this to anyone who's watching right
if you regret something
or you judge yourself to like go back
and and try to think about
you know if you could go back in time
and actually have a conversation with
that person from three years ago
what would you say to them and if the
hypothetical is enough we can talk about
it otherwise i would encourage you to
actually pull up
an image of yourself and look at it and
watch what happens
well i think like on the top of my head
without even looking
i mean i i feel that what i just needed
was like
i just needed time like i needed time
to make those mistakes and time to like
work on the things that needed to be
worked on
worked on and like you know i
i know it's gonna things are gonna be
okay now
but it's like and at the time i just
needed the i just needed the experience
to to learn how to how to sort of
become a more comfortable uh
self that's not this kind of like person
who's sort of straining
to be what i couldn't yet be right so
so like if i were to tell you natalie
i'm gonna try to pretend to be you
from three years ago and i'm gonna say
i'm
trying this stuff out and i feel really
really dumb about myself because when i
look at myself in the mirror i'm ugly
yeah i don't know who i am
but i know it's not this what would you
say
uh well i'd say look like first of all
like you're not
that ugly like it's really not
worth worrying about it but like also
more to the point like
you know i understand that you're not
happy with who you are and you're trying
to be someone else
but like the way this works is
you have to you can't try to become
someone else
you have to learn how to become
you have to learn how to express
yourself
and i know sometimes it feels like
okay but i'm transitioning so shouldn't
i be trying to get away
from you know this thing that i used to
be that i don't want to be
and it's like in a sense that's true
but also i think that
you know doing it by forcing it
is sort of i don't know uh
it's making things worse than it would
be if you had a more relaxed
attitude towards this and like
weren't trying to sort of rush it so
much because in some ways i thought
yeah but if i had started earlier like i
went through
like a male puberty yeah and so because
of the testosterone like my jaw is
bigger now i've developed all these
secondary characteristics
like i i mean you're telling me that i
shouldn't force it but like
i'm telling you that i should have
forced it a long time ago
that's so well because if i started this
process
earlier like i wouldn't be in this
situation i wouldn't be awkward now yeah
well that's also true that i you know if
i had
if i had done this you know earlier then
i could have sort of gotten myself
together
faster and i wouldn't have such a long
period of the
past that i feel is like an alienated
from
so great so i don't know if you noticed
but that's exactly what you should do
so i think we just flipped i think we
hit the barrier i don't know if twitch
chat is going to understand this
is just all in my head so like
i think you did a fantastic job of
talking to yourself
the message that you sent to yourself is
exactly
what you should be thinking and and yeah
right like i just go back and like watch
this later
but like that's not what you say to
yourself but it's exactly what you need
need to hear and it's exactly how you
need to talk to yourself
which is not dismissing the negativity
it's just saying hey this takes time and
you're gonna have to figure it out and
it's gonna be a bumpy ride
yeah right that's what you told yourself
but those aren't the thoughts that you
actually have when you look at a picture
but now what i want you to do is the
next time you look at a picture of
yourself from a couple years ago
see those two conflicts right just like
your philosophy degree where you take
the other side
and you try to sit in it now you've got
both sides of the argument and just
swim in those waters i don't know how
else to put it to you now
just swim in that space i have faith
that given your
degree of self-understanding given your
analytical capability
and given your earnestness for lack of a
better term
if you just give your mind and your
brain the opportunity to swim around
in those thoughts and feelings you're
gonna come out fine
and then what happened is i asked you
about the regret
and then you had trouble talking to
yourself in the right way
right so like then you started like
going back to your standard thought
pattern i don't know if that makes sense
but i've never heard you talk about
the old you in the way that you did
during this exercise
but i think we hit the border of kind of
where your exploration is
and like where your compassion is and
where your empathy is
does that make sense to y'all like i
don't know but anyway does that make
sense to you
i think well i think in a sense yeah
because it's like
the more compassionate i guess i guess
response is like
i was doing my best at the time now
maybe that's not
good enough at my standard now but it's
like
stop time so so now you're
intellectualizing that's not what you
were doing earlier
right now you can because you're [ __ ]
smart natalie so you can
come up with logically what the right
answer is but logically the right answer
is not actually empathy or compassion
yeah the way that you were talking to
yourself was not a logical conclusion
about what this person needs to hear
it's an empathic connection it's like a
[ __ ]
i know what it's like to be there and
and friend you just need time
right it's not the it's absolutely the
right answer but it's coming from
once again like you know it's not coming
from the outside it's coming from within
and so i don't care about what
compassionately what you should say to
yourself
because you can't say that to yourself
yet but you i think you
clearly i mean at least to me you've
made progress today
i don't know if that makes sense but i'm
sorry i think no i think it's i mean
honestly like
i think a lot of this has been like more
helpful than a lot of actual therapy
i've been to like
i think that like like i mean i think
you're doing
good but i think that um uh
like we've zeroed in pretty quickly on
some things that are like the major
problems
um i will say like i guess that another
i guess maybe something that holds me
back somewhat is like because of the
public nature of this
even if i feel that even if i can sort
of form a kind of compassion for that
past self
i sort of feel the way that i was judged
at the time and there's this fear that
i'm going to be continuously judged
now for the way i was then because of
this
this like 4d like you know
time eternity that we have but natalie
okay so now i'm going to talk logically
and i'm going to express a little bit of
frustration
but i'm not frustrated at you i'm
frustrated with the part of you
that does this to yourself so the reason
that you're
afraid that the rest of the world will
judge you that way
is because you judge yourself that way
uh well i do but also other people too
yeah absolutely right but like the thing
is
is that like i don't know how else to
say this but if it's
if you're on the same team with the
toxicity of the internet
you're gonna [ __ ] lose yeah well you
need to be on
your team they can say whatever the [ __ ]
they want to
yeah but the cool thing is just like if
natalie three years ago
had you as a sister supporting her she
would be in a completely different place
and i can tell you that your ability to
stand against the toxicity of the
internet
is going to be transformed if you can
stand with yourself
yeah you're damn right you're right
because you're [ __ ] smart and that's
half your problem
that they will continue to hate on the
question is
do you want to join them
well that is the problem isn't it
because like because i feel that
so many times i have essentially
joined in yes with those people like i
take their voice into my own head and it
becomes like
part of me and it becomes my own
perspective yeah so i think you've got
to
be careful a little bit about where
you're giving credit you said you take
their voice into your own head which you
do
but you had that voice before they did
that's true yeah right so be careful
yeah and so if we're thinking about your
agency and empowering you
it starts with the acceptance that this
voice is not
sure they reinforced that they fanned
the flames they threw fertilizer on it
like call it whatever you want to i'm
not saying that that's positive
but i think you have way more power up
in the way that you look at yourself
than the internet does
yeah well that's that should be true
uh i mean i i guess it is technically
true because
you know then there's a limit to how
powerful the internet can be in
effect affecting me but uh yeah it's
like as a question is like
how where i'm gonna find that
compassion um because i i sort of had an
awareness for a long time
that like this is this this is something
that's missing it's
it's something that i feel like if i
could if i could find this if i could
create this
i would be much stronger and i would
have a lot more fun online frankly
yeah because yeah all this all this
awfulness commentary
dummy i mean it could be sort of just
brushed off as the sort of amusing
ridiculous
nonsense that it is um
the like the weird hate obsession that
other people have is that that is simply
not my problem
right um it's a question of like
i just can't seem to get to the point
where i genuinely don't care and when
where there's not still this part of me
that's
on their side yep so so well said okay
so
like here's your quarter unquote answer
so the first thing is that
you did it today i'm pretty sure i heard
compassion come out of you that was not
there before
and i think it's the way that and so i'd
say just go back
and like evoke those feelings and then
just ask yourself pretend that you're oh
you're your own older sister yeah right
and like how would you talk
to your how would you talk to that
person who's stuck in time
now you're sort of lucky because like
that person is still preserved right so
you can like actually kind of go back in
time and like talk to them
i think that literally that exercise
towards yourself so like i'd say like
another thing you can do is
imagine that time that you had you know
nail polish on
and like you went and you saw someone on
the subway who was like
one of these ugly transsexuals
yeah and and just like you know just
just walk yourself through
and like listen to the way that you
thought about your like you you thought
about that person
try to explore that feeling and then
like talk to yourself
now right and and that gets more
complicated that's the barrier by the
way
we hit that barrier and you can see it
if you go once again go back and watch
the vod
there's there was a new thinking and
then i saw the old thinking kind of crop
up
yeah and so you just gotta i mean you
gotta work at it right so i'd say like
just
just learn how to talk to yourself so
you're gonna you're gonna figure out you
know
level one you can talk to yourself from
three years ago level two
maybe five years ago you just have to
practice
the second thing oh [ __ ] something else
oh yeah the second thing is that
i think just in general
the more that you can accept
that you were a toxic [ __ ]
and the more that you can accept that
just like all the other toxic [ __ ]
on the internet
your toxicity actually comes from hurt
it doesn't come from you being a bad
person and the more because right now
what happens
you judge yourself for being the [ __ ]
right
you're like oh i used to be bad like
that and i try not to and stuff like
that
what i want you to do is is follow that
pull on that thread
back to its source hurt and once you
find that source hurt
then you can express compassion towards
it i think the reason you can't be
compassionate towards yourself is
because i don't think you've tracked
back
to the actual wound
so follow the thread of hatred back to
the wound
just like incels right like go back to
that rejection
and like like then then you can be
compassionate if you know like what
hurts
yeah i think um you don't know how to
kiss the boo-boo because you don't know
where the boo-boo is
yeah i think it's hard to place exactly
like where it starts it's more of a damn
right it is
yes yeah like a couple of things come to
mind but i don't know
like i don't know what the origin is
exactly yeah so but
natalie that's what you've got to
explore right and this is the thing it
doesn't have a origin
so if you get a chance to go back and
watch if i have a video about some scars
you should just go back and watch that
but the thing is each of these so that
hurt it's that's actually the
beautiful answer that makes me more
optimistic so the way
so i think what's what's going on this
is some scar so some scar is a sanskrit
word that means a ball of undigested
emotion or an emotional trauma
and essentially what happens is that we
carry around this ball of undigested
emotion with us
and every experience that we have that
sort of relates to it
grows the size of that emotional trauma
and so when you're saying i don't know
where it starts the way that you fix it
is by going through each of those the
more things that you can think of
conversely actually the easier it's
going to be to heal because each of
those needs to be processed
sort of with me i'm going to give you an
example in a second yeah yeah
so if if we think about like let's say i
have a phobia of dogs right like that
phobia of dog starts with one dog biting
me
and then what happens if i get bitten
again what happens to my phobia
is it confirmed confirmed right yeah and
then
if i get bitten the third time fourth
time fifth time the more
experiences i can think of of dogs
biting me the greater the emotional
trauma is and so interestingly if you
can think of a handful of things then
you need to go back
and talk through each of those right we
think like okay that first time that dog
bit you it actually didn't bite you the
second time this happened
the third time this happened and you go
back and you process each of those and
then
natalie you'll feel it you'll do it it's
actually i
i can't i feel really optimistic for you
because if you can already think of a
bunch of things that's because
each of those things relates to that
some scar
right why does your mind think of like
like if i say the word sushi and your
mind thinks about six different kinds of
sushi that's because it's all related to
that core concept
so i'd say if you've done therapy you
know go through each of those
experiences and really think about
what hurt about this where does my anger
come from
and track them back and then you'll find
this ball
of like amorphous relatively undigested
emotion
that sprouts and pokes through the
ground
in several places but just because you
see a lot of different shoots
doesn't make your life harder it
actually makes your life easier
yeah well
i i can say yeah i guess
you think you could just describe to me
like what it would look like to process
like an individual one of these
incidents sure so give me an example
what's one of the things that you
thought about um
well okay this is like not necessarily
one of the earliest but i guess sometime
was the first six months or seven months
of my transition
i can recall like basically like going
into
a restaurant and like trying to get a
table
and having them just like straight up
laugh at me and be like
lol like this like like
this is like a crazy cross-dresser like
i forgot exactly what they said but it
but it was um you know
so there's that or they think there's
like the time
well hold on a second okay sorry keep
going keep going sorry
like another time i was walking down uh
the street and like early on and like
some got like it was a guy who was
following me
and sorry this is like a little bit
explicit
but he just came up right behind me and
said
would you mind if i sucked your dick
like
what is the point of that except to make
him make it to
he wants me to know that he knows that
i'm trans
and also he wants me to feel degraded
about it
okay i don't know why he said that it's
a weird thing to say but i completely
agree
but but like there's a couple
experiences like like
a bunch of experiences like that where
it's like well people like
there's sort of people they want me to
know that they know that i'm trans
they don't want me to get away with
thinking that
that people see me as a woman and
they also like want me to feel bad about
it and they succeed at that
okay
can i think for a second yeah yeah
so if people are wondering that's the
sump scar
so it's this this whole okay
so let's just look at something
logically for a second okay
and i'm i'm gonna try to unpack
something but like it's okay you don't
have to
i'm gonna point out logical
inconsistencies i don't want you to
defend them
because i think that's a sign that we're
moving in the right direction
so the guy who walks up to you and says
do you want me to suck your dick
and then you say he wants me to feel dot
dot dot dot dot
and then like literally is you
hypothesized two reasons
why he did that and then and then
literally in the next sentence you're
like i have no idea why someone would
say that
yeah well i just think it's a weird way
of getting
those things across well but so that's
the thing is i don't know
where you get the idea of what he was
trying to get across
so you may have some insight that i
don't have
and i'm sure you do right because you've
been on the receiving end of a lot of
these interactions
but i think it when you say they don't
want me to get away with it
i think that's like
natalie do you think you're getting away
with it
get away with what you tell me what were
you referring to
well i guess
nice dodge but what i feel is that
they're trying to do
is that they're kind of trying to
humiliate me
by making sure i know that they are
clocking me
as like a transgender person
you know what i mean like hey like no
one sees you you know
i don't see you as a woman like just so
you know do you see yourself as a woman
natalie
uh well i kind of go back and forth kind
of um
there it is yeah right so like
i don't think i mean i could be wrong
right so you've dealt with more toxicity
towards transgender people than i have
you know sucks for you and so you
probably have a better understanding of
what's in their head than i do
but i'm gonna go out on limb and say
you're really
frankly could be projecting a lot of
their motivations
because when i ask you because like
here's here's the
crazy thing right that's the [ __ ] sub
scar he said they don't want me to get
away with it and i ask you
natalie are you a woman and
the way i'm going to interpret your
answer is that i really want to be
but i'm not sure that i'm getting away
with it
yeah i think that well so i i see what
you're saying
and that i do think that like if i was
like 100
confident i know who i am like i know
that i'm a woman
like nothing anyone else thinks can
change that then this would not bother
me to the extent that it does right
precisely it's the fact that it's
picking at
what is already an insecurity exam
right that's the sum scar so that's why
when a random person who
you know who knows what the [ __ ] he was
thinking because
it sounds like a real perv but when when
you can take
and granted you can assume some things
about you know what they're thinking but
like
i think generally speaking like that
behavior is so
far outside the norm that i would
conclude that you
can't actual like your capacity to
imagine what that person is thinking is
actually quite low maybe
could be different for you but but i
think what happens is ambiguous
ambiguous interactions small
interactions short interactions
like you walking in and they're them
laughing like do you even know that they
were laughing at you i know it sounds
like a crazy question
well sometimes you're not really sure
but sometimes but sometimes sometimes
like it's they're looking at you in a
way that it's like
it seems like that they could be
laughing at you for some other reason
but
but like what else would it be
exactly right so so i i think so that's
the thing is i
once again natalie i'm hopeful because
you're insightful this is your insecure
it's not coming from other people so
then the question that
now we have to go to the root of it is
like like where
when did you start to think that you
wouldn't get away with it
um well i guess what do we mean by
getting away with it as in like
your language yeah so okay i i guess
part of what i'm talking about here is
like it's like
passing as a woman like having other
people see me and then just
pick up okay that's a woman you know uh
i guess to me well especially the the
perfect example
like because it's because like sometimes
people apart from me just the way that
they perform on
any woman you know and that doesn't
bother me
because it's like because it's like well
yeah because you're passing
right that's what they do but like they
do that's all
to most of them they're to a lot of
women and so it's like okay it's not the
greatest thing but it also doesn't
really needle me in the same way
but it was the way this guy did it
specifically as a reference to the fact
that i'm trans
yeah you know what i mean and so it's
part of it
i guess in a way like part of the pain
is like it's regardless of the fact
that regardless of
of of what he was trying to do
what he said is still revealing that
like he got me
you know yeah so yeah but so i i think
that he can
only get you if you don't if you're
hiding something
yeah right yeah
it's true that like it and i think this
is an area where i've made some
progress like you've made a lot of
progress
you're allowed i'm allowed to be
a trans woman and part of that is i'm
allowed to look like a trans woman
absolutely um and like but for a while
that seemed like
so unacceptable it was like no like if i
look like a trans woman like
this is failure like this is like
equivalent to looking
like ugly and unlovable blah blah blah
blah blah like
and so it became this whole painful
thing yeah yeah
but i mean that's what that's it natalie
yeah
so like it's like going back in time and
like examining
those thoughts the thoughts of
i feel like a failure right so and i
think i think you're right you've come a
long way but the problem is that like
even though you've learned how to make a
really delicious dinner
you still have you haven't taken out the
trash from the failed attempts before
right right and so i think that there's
still a lot there about like
what you need to accept yourself as and
i you know maybe i'm rubbing people the
wrong way here but like
i think you've got to accept yourself as
who you are which is a trans woman
which like i mean maybe this is
offensive and please let me know if it
is but like
if you are holding yourself up to a
beauty standard that involves two
x chromosomes yeah that's just like
a battle that's gonna be hard to win and
even if you do win it someday which i
hope you do and great for you
you still can't really it's like just
not fair to beat yourself up for like
losing all of the attempts until
you know someone injects you with a
virus that replaces your y chromosome
with an x chromosome or something like
that
and then you're like you know like like
i mean you are who you
are right yeah and and for a long time
and i think that's sort of the antidote
to it but i think you still have to
take out the trash which is to go back
to all those times where you were
hunting
right you were expressing yourself at
first you were
hiding a woman in the man's body and you
were hiding it being
a man right and then your girlfriend
dumped you because you weren't masculine
enough
right and so so like you've been hiding
your entire life and i think it just
goes back to like each of those
experiences and talking those through
right processing them and recognizing
that i've been trying to hide who i
am for way longer than i'm pretending to
be a woman i don't mean that
offensively but like i think i'm putting
myself in your shoes
because i think you sometimes still
think that you are pretending to be a
woman
yeah no i i agree that with that or at
least that i'm pretending to be like
i'm i'm sort of i'm getting this great
sense of security
from the idea that people are just
perceiving me as like a biological woman
yeah you know what i mean like the
people are not noticing any transness
about me is it this great sense of
comfort
and like i do still have this experience
where like
okay so here's something that happens
time to time like if i meet a new person
like and they don't know what i do they
don't know anything about me
everything seems to be going well and
then they ask like oh like what's your
what was your job and i'm like i
do internet media
they want to know okay explicit oh my
god i'm a youtuber and they say what's
your channel about oh you have to tell
me so i can google it right now
and then like i'll tell them and then as
they google my name
i will just like like i can feel my face
get like hot with the shame
of knowing that what they're about to
find out yeah
so that's coming from you friend yeah
it's not coming i mean as much as those
toxic [ __ ] on the internet think
that they have power over you like i
just don't think
i mean sure they can hurt you don't get
me wrong
but like that's the shame that is like
it's the anticipatory shame
of them knowing yeah right and you're
right because it's security but like
this is this it goes back to courage
natalie yeah security is about like
hiding from them something about
yourself
because you're afraid like why is that
secure for you because
you're afraid of what they'll see
and how they'll react and like why is
that and like that's because it goes i
think that goes back to like
how you used to react yeah
what you see in them is like yeah and
and so
i think it's like it's like i mean i
don't know how to say this but it's all
this crap like we can't
unfortunately we can't do it all today
but i think these are the threads you've
got to run down right like your own
toxicity towards other people the way
that you used to judge them
because that's the way you judge
yourself yes
it's it's about like learning that
you're going to be a trans woman for the
rest of your life
yes and i i don't think yeah no that's
like that's something that i recently
had
like it's kind of because i'm you know
i'm
with like almost three and a half
something like that years into medical
and social transition and like i i'm at
a point where
i've sort of dispelled this illusion i
guess from earlier on
earlier on it there's there's almost a
delusion that takes hold that's like oh
i'm going to get to the end of this and
i'm just going to be a cis woman
but it's like no i'm not like i'm kind
of
so so here's here's the problem
right so like i'm not an expert in
political theory or sociology
if i say something that's offensive i
apologize
here's what i see as a problem and
you're welcome to think i'm wrong
if you don't accept yourself as a trans
woman
you're placing a value on cis women over
trans women
oh 100 yeah right and so that's i think
the basic problem is that like you are
valuing something above yourself that
you will never be
yeah and impossible and then you're
confused why despite your material
success you were unhappy
yeah right
well yeah and and so like natalie like
it comes to like
accepting who you are and accepting that
you know like there are a lot of parts
of you that are ugly and you hate
yourself and whatever but like i think
you've got to go back and and just
i mean that's the thing until you accept
yourself
for who you are right and you can still
like want to be more feminine but once
again it's like that has to come from
you and that has to come from like
forward momentum it's like you're like
the person who
wants to lose 50 pounds and has lost 30
pounds and you're beating yourself up
because you still need to lose 20 more
like it's going to be a journey
yeah and i don't think at least in this
life you're ever going to be a cis woman
we'll see
but the thing is i don't think that
there's a problem with that
yeah right i think it's like if you
think there's a problem with that that's
on you
but if you think it's a problem with it
that's not something that's ever gonna
i mean maybe medic who knows right well
i feel that it's like
i feel that it's something i sort of
just i mean there are trends the one who
kind of say like oh i'm not even trans
anymore i've had all the surgeries like
like but i don't know i think that i
don't quite agree with that i think that
like
there's no erasing who where you come
from
and i guess natalie do you try
yeah well sure i do especially i mean
like not all the time i don't try
all the time and i'm like aware that
online like in like come on
the game is up people know that i'm
trans like but but it's true that
that like offline i do try
to keep people from knowing okay a lot
of the time
and like and i guess on some level i
i there's also a regret almost at the
time on the internet it's like well
i might have had a chance to just kind
of blend in and just not have to deal
with any of this
if i hadn't made this so public yeah
so the regret is once again about the
security it's about the mask
your regret is that like you let people
know who you are
yeah if your regret would have won you
would be living a life that is
inauthentic and you'd be happy and
unhappy anyway that's true yeah it's
hard to really but like you've got to
just
swim in that [ __ ] yeah
well i know like for some as trans
people like that like it's called on
like
we call it living stealth which is when
you're living
you're not out as trans the people
around you people just think that
you know if you're trans women people
just think you're a woman they don't
know about your trans history
um so i think part of the i think
because i've heard from a lot of people
who live that way
that it actually kind of eats away at
them in its own way
because they're keeping this major part
of them with other people
i think part of my issue is that i never
have lived like
stealth except in these like little
isolated incidents where i'm like
i'm enjoying the fact that i've just met
this person and they don't seem to know
yet
you know um but like i i think that
because i don't have that experience of
living as stealth
i guess i feel like
i don't know i wish i had like at least
more of that and maybe if i did have
more of that
then i would realize that it's not that
great and i wouldn't care you know
so natalie i you know this may be i
don't even know what the statement is
gonna do
i didn't realize you were a trans woman
when i watched your youtube video
i don't know how that's going to affect
you like how does that make you feel if
i tell you that
i love it anyway
i know i'm not supposed to know and i
was supposed to love it but it makes me
feel really good
okay so so forget about what you're
supposed to do
yeah like why like i'm telling you
to you know so you can look at yourself
and like
what feels satisfied well it feels like
um
i guess it feels like you saw me
the way i kind of want to be seen
okay and now i know you're a trans woman
yeah how do you feel
uh i mean it's fine
most people know but like but i guess
it's um
it does i feel ch change a little bit i
feel like it must change it must change
how you see me
somewhat look at my face
what do you see what do i think about
you
oh i don't know try
i mean you invited me on your show sure
couldn't hear me that much but i i
didn't know you were trans when we
invited you on our show
yeah uh well i guess
natalie look at my face and tell me what
what i think about what do you see in my
face
um well i i think i think you're
interested
and and you care what i have to say
okay good both true anything else yeah
uh i mean okay you don't seem like
you don't you don't seem too disgusted
what do you think about that um
[Music]
it's nice yeah so when you say something
must have changed what must have changed
well i guess it comes from this fear
that
like if people know that i'm trans
they're gonna like re-categorize me as
like
okay probably like
i don't know some kind of abnormal
deviant instead of just
and we're trying to know like why why do
i care so much about people think of an
abnormal deviant i haven't had normal
deviation like
i don't i don't know i don't know yeah
so much because
because like it comes from you man yeah
and hopefully that's not offensive
i just don't know i just don't know like
i don't know
i want you to understand why i have this
like conformist streak
that comes out about this particular
issue when a lot of other ways i'm not
really that conformist
yeah so like like here's the thing
natalie you were a complicated
bundle of all kinds of [ __ ] some would
be good and some of it bad
and i accept all of it
whatever there's a part of you that's a
toxic castle
fine there's a part of you that's
brilliant and a good teacher fine
there's a part of you that's a trans
woman fine there's a part of you that's
just a woman
without cis without trans without
anything else
fine but you're you yeah
and like every part of you that i've
seen i think is great
right like you're just you and like you
keep on doing you
and don't worry about like you know like
because when i tell you like
when we explore my understanding of
whether you're trans or not
it like it comes from your head because
you've been talking to me the whole time
i've known your trans
sort of the whole time right but it's
like even when i share with you like
so you've had a particular impression of
people when we start
talking about my beliefs about whether
you're trans or not
this whole other complex arises in your
mind do you see that
yeah whereas we've been talking for like
two hours and like
i mean i don't know if it's been there
or not but i haven't noticed it until
now
which is like it's just weird it's a
whole separate thing
even it's like my preoccupation with
like how you're seeing me or
yes yes right and i i turned that switch
on
by telling you i didn't know you were
trans
yeah guys we've just been two humans
talking about
[ __ ] for the last two hours and like
it's been fun for me hopefully it's been
fun for you yeah
and then all i have to do is i have to
tell you i didn't know you were trans
because i really
i don't know and then as soon as that
like a switch turns on in your mind and
this whole complex
opens up but like that's just like some
weird psychological conditioning or
some scar it's not anything to do with
reality
does that make sense yeah i i mean no it
does i think
i think that this this question of like
whether i'm being perceived
as trans or whether i'm being perceived
as a woman or whatever having perceived
is like i mean it's maybe not as bad as
it used to be but for so
there was there was years where this was
just a constant preoccupation
and so it's very easy to like re-enter
that state of mind you're damn right it
is
yeah that is the some scars so each of
those moments that you remember
right you got to talk those through with
someone and i don't know if you
i don't know how much emotional
processing you've done since you asked
me how do i do that but i suspect a
little bit
so your tools are going to be like going
back thinking through that
trying to talk to yourself like your
older sister
you may evoke compassion maybe like a
shortcut to find you know what you
needed to tell yourself and
how to practice self-compassion which i
think everyone can do like one tool is
just pretend that you're the older
version of yourself
and i mean you know just going back in
time the third thing and i i kid you not
natalie is
just noticing is enough to transform
this is the biggest like misc
misunderstanding of the largely western
world
is that we think that doing something
enacts change
whereas the yogis in the east say
awareness of something is sufficient to
change it
and so i'd say just notice these
thoughts notice notice notice and when
you explore why do we say explore
why do we say emotionally processed we
are bringing things up from your mind
for you to notice and that is what
emotional processing is
it's kind of really bizarre but like you
know if you tell someone
hey you know i just lost a loved one and
that person says to you
hey i'm sorry that sucks is that person
alive
no no that thanks but like but why do
you feel better they didn't do anything
right all they did is acknowledge yeah
they
noticed your hurt and that in and of
itself is sufficient to reduce it
it's crazy but that's how it works
so that's my recommendation to you i
think that's maybe
kind of part of the hope and part of the
motivation for making the like the more
personal videos that i do
is like this this feeling that like oh
if i can share
if i can make up the other people see
the pain that i'm in
that will be some it will someone simply
relieve part of it
yeah so i makes sense to me but i think
this goes back to something you said at
the very beginning of the interview
which is that you're a confession junkie
yeah right and i i don't think it's
about sharing with the rest of the world
i think it's the reason that feels good
like why does confession
is because you're noticing it right like
you're accepting it you're bringing it
to the surface
you're not hiding it you're not masking
it you're
not stealthing anything you're just
being with it and then it gets easier
which is like i think anthropologically
like probably one of the reasons that
if you look at like a you know how
confession and things like that of all
that probably has something to do with
it
questions well i know like um
a lot of teenagers are kind of like
bullies
and then come to like later regret
or feel the horrible about having been
bullies like i've talked to a lot of
people like
like they look back on their teenagers
and they say like oh i was awful to
people
but it came from this space of like
of being hurt themselves and kind of i
don't know preferring to like
be on the side of the person doing the
hurting or something for once
i guess
sorry i was going with this
was the question you asked me huh
what was the question what was the
question you asked me i just said do you
have any questions
oh i guess um
i guess i feel like the one thing i
haven't mentioned
related to any of this stuff is that i
do feel that like
in a lot of subtle ways that these
problems have like
been behind some of the like uglier
moments in the time that i've been
online
yeah and i you know i
don't know how wary of as you are but
like a lot of
the like i make a fairly controversial
person
within trans spaces okay because of like
a lot of people are upset about some
like borderline transphobic things that
i've said in the past
and it's i i sort of i
i know that those the things that i said
that
that are contra i didn't say anything
too horrible but like it's something
that like
people kind of pick up on because in a
sense when they say that i'm transphobic
that they're right
like like i feel like if they're exactly
they're exact they're exaggerating
obviously they say they don't know the
mean way or they're trying to vilify me
but like they're they like they see the
same thing that you're seeing
you know and
i feel that and i feel that on some
level they're right that it has like
come out in these ways that are
sometimes
ugly and i guess i just don't i guess my
final thought is like
i wonder if there's any way to kind of
like undo some of the damage of that
sure of course
so so i i know it sounds like a simple
answer to what sounds like a heavy
question
but absolutely not so i think it starts
with what i'm hearing is that there's a
little bully in you
that sometimes is a little bit bullying
towards trans people
which we know because you bully the [ __ ]
out of yourself all the time
and and that it peaks out and then some
people from the trans community
blame you for it yeah which i don't
think you're
transphobic in the way that there's like
through transphobic people but
i'm not surprised that there are people
who are attuned
towards some of your negative attitudes
that fluctuate and peak out
in your content i think it's not
actually fair
or compassionate for them to like zero
in on those moments
in the larger scheme of your overall
thread
right i tend to be a pretty
compassionate guy sometimes i can be a
dick
and i think it's fair for people to
sniff that out
and like i'd also appreciate it if they
could you know look at
the scope of my things and judge me for
all of it
that's what i want to yeah yeah so i
mean but that's sort of on them and
you ask can i heal from it i think
absolutely and i think this
goes back to what we're talking about
which is that you've got to start with
yourself
right you've got to start with like
stopping the bullying towards yourself
this is the crazy thing that is you kind
of alluded to is that a lot of bullies
are bullies because they're hurting in
some way
like if you look at kids that are
behavioral and like hit other kids
it's oftentimes because they were abused
and you kind of mentioned you've alluded
to this but it's something that i call
the cycle of abuse
and it's like the cycle of abuse
continues like we see it in like medical
training where
you know you get yelled at in the
operating room by a surgeon because
i mean it's like my second day and some
guy's yelling at me because i don't know
how to do surgery i'm like
dude if i don't know how to do anything
in this room it's [ __ ] your fault
like it's not
yeah you're the person who's been doing
my second day bro
and and so so we do that right like we
learn a particular way of like
interacting and then we adopt those
patterns and we propagate them
so if you want to make the world a
better place and you want to heal the
hurt that you've caused and i don't
doubt that you've caused hurt and that's
not because you're a bad person because
we all cause hurt
like you know we're new at this thing
called life
yeah can you fix it i mean can you fix
those
particular things no i maybe not but i
don't think that's relevant i think
you've got to start
by like trying to make the world a
better place that i think you can
absolutely
start by understanding why you bully
yourself
that too track that back to your hurt
compassion towards that hurt will make
the bullying behavior go away
and once you become that person i have
no doubt in my mind that you will be
a force for overall met good in the
world if you aren't already
and that's what i think you should do in
that my friend is your karma
this is your journey and you've been
given these challenges
you've walked this path you've learned
how to stumble
you've learned how to fall and then you
will be in a different kind of place
because right now bullying yourself in
the trans community is transphobic and
no one is going to do it
but i would venture that a lot of people
are doing exactly what you do
but the problem is it's so [ __ ]
transphobic no one's allowed to talk
about it
so no one can ever help each other with
it no one else can ever be compassionate
towards it
well that is the problem is that because
on the one hand it's
either other people who are like very
transphobic
will take your side and then the people
who are hurt by what you're saying the
vilify you for it
so it's like the only compassion that is
is had for you is well there's no
compassion for you right
it's either taking your side into an
evil way well it's not an ethos of evil
but like you know in
some way in a mean way a malicious way
yeah so
there's like you know they're they're
seeing you as this villain
so natalie this is what i think you need
to do you need to
help yourself first and foremost and
then what you need to do
is shine out towards the rest of the
world
yeah right like once you become
like pure and clean and you accept
yourself who you
are just let broadcast that [ __ ] out
there
and some people are gonna get pissed at
you and some people are gonna glom on
and some people are gonna twist your
words
but it's been my overwhelming experience
that when you just
try to work on yourself and you become a
decent human being and you just let the
rest of the world see
it tends to work out pretty well yeah
so start by fixing the hurt within
yourself and then you can talk about
being transphobic or bullying yourself
or the hateful thoughts and if you use
those words right if you use if you say
like
i used to like look at myself in the
mirror and like i'm ashamed of who i see
there is no doubt in my mind that like
you know lots of trans people out there
are going to resonate with that and then
when you say
this is how i learned how to be
different a lot of people are going to
resonate with that and then they're
gonna stop bullying themselves and then
you'll be a
a force for good in the world and you
will have healed the hurt
sound good that sounds very good
this is very helpful glad because i
never know where this is going to go
no this is going very well okay i'm glad
i i i i need someone to tell me things
every day
okay yeah so who can that be
um there's a couple of people in my life
who
like incorrect i think i think okay
[Music]
who is that i have to tell myself is
that damn right
yeah yeah right
because here's the crazy thing what do
you tell yourself every day
uh what do i tell myself every day yeah
right
psy says it all yeah
yeah you're right you absolutely need
you need to hear these things every day
yeah you're damn right you and everyone
else is insecure
or struggles with something you need to
hear this every [ __ ] day
and there it's wonderful that you have
people in your life i encourage you to
recruit them
but once again it depends on which side
you're on are you
on their team natalie are you on the
toxic team
yeah to work on it
i have faith in you you come this far
and i think that like it's hard to come
this far without
you know having a lot of courage a lot
of resilience
brilliance frankly
yeah cool
so i i'm kind of done you okay wrapping
up
no i'm good that's that's sounds great
to me
yeah um so you know in terms of
meditation sometimes i'll teach a formal
practice but
in this case natalie i really encourage
you to like
watch what comes up so like go and look
at a picture of yourself and like
watch what comes up and even like like
just
watch those thoughts and those feelings
and then like try to be your older
sister and that's going to take practice
yeah you know if you feel ashamed of
yourself just look at yourself in the
mirror and see
what comes up see what you tell yourself
right and then try to it would be good
to do to be able to do that because i
feel like then i could also be an older
sister to other
trans people which is something that i
sort of have not quite gotten
to be able to do yeah because you
haven't been ready yet
yeah so that's your karma
right so like it'd be interesting
because i think from like a karmic
perspective
that if you wanted to be an older sister
to lots of trans people
i would recommend a career like a phd in
philosophy where you're doing research
in in an academic setting
as opposed to having a youtube channel
with a million subscribers where you
have a platform where you can
communicate
a message of positivity towards people
who need to hear it which one would you
pick
well i suppose at this point
the decision has been made i don't know
yeah i feel like i think this can be
done either way yep
and i think that's your karma right
because oh lo and behold
you happen to have a platform where you
get three million views
for videos that you make interesting
yeah it's a lot of um well it's
it frightens me actually the amount of
responsibility that it comes with that
good that is the best feeling that
you've had
all the time today you should be
terrified it's terrifying
because natalie you have a big burden on
your shoulders
yeah and the world needs you yeah
and so time to you know start treating
yourself well
get fully aligned with who you are as a
person because there are lots of trans
women and trans men and cis women and
cis men
who are insecure about what they see and
need something from you
and it turns out that you're an
incredibly thoughtful person who can
tell a very succinct
story with lots of context and
background and you have a training in
philosophy and argument
so if you have something to say turns
out that you're actually pretty skilled
at saying it and helping people
understand
so if you feel the crushing weight of
responsibility on your shoulders i'd say
good job
grow the [ __ ] up and get to work sounds
good
all right thank you so much for coming
on
yeah thank you for having me this has
been this
one was a little more interesting than i
imagined it was going to be
for me too no you're a trans woman
i don't know
but hey natalie it's been delightful
it's been great yeah
it's been good so you guys just you want
to just tell people who are here a
little bit later a little bit about what
you do and where we can find you
uh yeah um so my name is contra points
is the name of the channel c-o-n-t-r-a
points and uh yeah twitter
youtube instagram i would focus on
youtube the other stuff
you know yeah so she makes really cool
videos that are like really
well thought out um and and kind of
start to finish i think it's like really
good
it's not just something like snippet
it's like really well thought out
so check out contra points thanks for
coming on and good luck to your friend
thank you so much all right bye
that was different from what i was
expecting
but uh yeah that was great
man she is awesome